% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 03:26PM on February 19, 2026


(ParticleFieldOpacityAttributeAPI)=
# ParticleFieldOpacityAttributeAPI

Defines an applied schema for ParticleField
opacity data. 

The opacity should be in the range [0, 1], and treated as 
traditional (linear) computer graphics opacity, not as
transformed data sometimes seen in PLY files associated with
Gaussian splats, where the values need to be processed with a
sigmoid activation function.

Attributes are provided in both `float` and `half` types for 
easy data footprint affordance. Data consumers should prefer the
`float` version if available.

The length of this attribute is expected to match the length of
any provided position data (via any ParticleFieldPositionBaseAPI derived
schema). If it is too long it will be truncated to the number of particles 
defined by the position data. If it is too short it will be ignored.
If it is ignored or not populated, then the default value of fully
opaque (1.0) is used.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(ParticleFieldOpacityAttributeAPI_properties)=

## Properties

(ParticleFieldOpacityAttributeAPI_opacities)=

### opacities

**USD type**: `float[]`

Defines the linear [0,1] opacity for each 
particle, in `float` precision. The length of this attribute is expected to 
match the length of any provided position data for the ParticleField. If it is 
too long it will be truncated to the number of particles defined by the position 
data. If it is too short it will be ignored.


(ParticleFieldOpacityAttributeAPI_opacitiesh)=

### opacitiesh

**USD type**: `half[]`

Defines the linear [0,1] opacity for each 
particle, in `half` precision. If the `float` version (opacities) is defined, 
that version should be preferred. The length of this attribute is expected to 
match the length of any provided position data for the ParticleField. If it is 
too long it will be truncated to the number of particles defined by the position 
data. If it is too short it will be ignored.

