% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 03:26PM on February 19, 2026


(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat)=
# ParticleField3DGaussianSplat

A ParticleField that represents the original 3D
[Gaussian Splats technique](https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.04079).

It inherits from the ParticleField base prim, and has a set of
built-in schema to provide the required attributes to define the necessary 
data from the original 3DGS paper.

It also contains rendering hints that can optionally inform
how the splats should be rendered. These hints typically
correlate with choices that were made when the data was trained.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_properties)=

## Properties

(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_projectionModeHint)=

### projectionModeHint

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `perspective`

A renderer hint on how to project 
the Gaussian to achieve a perspective correct view. Renderers are free to
ignore this, but the hint is often valuable to tune the
rendering of the scene. It often corresponds to a choice made
when training the data.

The hint can be one of the following:

- `perspective`: Perspective projection is similar to standard object rendering
from a camera view. Gaussians are projected with scaling and distortion based on 
depth.

- `tangential`: Tangential projection treats the image plane as a tangent to
the viewing sphere. Gaussians are projected orthogonally,
preserving shape and scale better, which helps reduce distortion
for certain rendering applications like novel view synthesis.


(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_sortingModeHint)=

### sortingModeHint

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `zDepth`

A renderer hint on how to sort 
the Gaussian while drawing. Renderers are free to
ignore this, but the hint is often valuable to tune the
rendering of the scene. It often corresponds to a choice made
when training the data.

Rasterizers usually sort Gaussians from back to front. This attribute
is a hint for the metric used to sort the Gaussians with respect to the
camera.

The hint can be one of the following:

- `zDepth`: The particles are sorted based on the Z component of the
particle position when transformed into the camera's local space.

- `cameraDistance`: The particles are sorted based on the Euclidian
distance from the particle to the camera.


(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_inheritedproperties_Gprim)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Gprim`)

(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_doubleSided)=

### doubleSided

**USD type**: `bool`

**Fallback value**: `False`



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_orientation)=

### orientation

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `rightHanded`



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_primvars:displayColor)=

### primvars:displayColor

**USD type**: `color3f[]`



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_primvars:displayOpacity)=

### primvars:displayOpacity

**USD type**: `float[]`



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_inheritedproperties_Boundable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Boundable`)

(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_extent)=

### extent

**USD type**: `float3[]`



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_inheritedproperties_Xformable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Xformable`)

(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_xformOpOrder)=

### xformOpOrder

**USD type**: `token[]`



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_inheritedproperties_Imageable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Imageable`)

(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_proxyPrim)=

### proxyPrim

**USD type**: `rel` (relationship)



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_purpose)=

### purpose

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `default`



(ParticleField3DGaussianSplat_visibility)=

### visibility

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `inherited`


