% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 03:26PM on February 19, 2026


(ParticleField)=
# ParticleField

ParticleField is the base schema for describing 
different types of concrete ParticleField implementations, such as, but 
not limited to, 3D Gaussian Splats. 

If you need to extend UsdVol with your own particle field schemas, your custom 
schemas should inherit from ParticleField.

ParticleField is a concrete base schema. You can create ParticleField prims for 
prototyping, manually applying necessary schemas to it as needed, but in 
practice you'll want to instantiate derived types, such as 
ParticleField3DGaussianSplat, which provide for easier validation and 
renderer-adoption.

All ParticleField-derived schemas are required to provide the following 
attributes, but are free to provide them in any form.

- Position: the local space position of each particle in the field.
- Kernel: the kernel that is instantiated at each particle.
- Radiance: the visual appearance of the particle field.

Other optional attributes that may control the kernel instance are, but are not
limited to:

- Orientation: the orientation for the kernel attached to the particle,
necessary if the kernel isn't rotationally symmetric.
- Scale: the size of the kernel attached to the particle, in three
dimensions.
- Opacity: the opacity, or weight, of the kernel attached to the
particle.

UsdVol provides base applied schemas (and derived schemas) that represent these 
attributes. The base applied schemas, such as ParticleFieldPositionBaseAPI 
are provided to allow for robust validation of ParticleFields.

See {ref}`usdVol_working_with_particlefields` for additional best practices when 
working with ParticleFields.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(ParticleField_properties)=

## Properties

(ParticleField_inheritedproperties_Gprim)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Gprim`)

(ParticleField_doubleSided)=

### doubleSided

**USD type**: `bool`

**Fallback value**: `False`



(ParticleField_orientation)=

### orientation

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `rightHanded`



(ParticleField_primvars:displayColor)=

### primvars:displayColor

**USD type**: `color3f[]`



(ParticleField_primvars:displayOpacity)=

### primvars:displayOpacity

**USD type**: `float[]`



(ParticleField_inheritedproperties_Boundable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Boundable`)

(ParticleField_extent)=

### extent

**USD type**: `float3[]`



(ParticleField_inheritedproperties_Xformable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Xformable`)

(ParticleField_xformOpOrder)=

### xformOpOrder

**USD type**: `token[]`



(ParticleField_inheritedproperties_Imageable)=

## Inherited Properties ({ref}`Imageable`)

(ParticleField_proxyPrim)=

### proxyPrim

**USD type**: `rel` (relationship)



(ParticleField_purpose)=

### purpose

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `default`



(ParticleField_visibility)=

### visibility

**USD type**: `token`

**Fallback value**: `inherited`


