% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 03:26PM on February 19, 2026


(ParticleFieldSphericalHarmonicsAttributeAPI)=
# ParticleFieldSphericalHarmonicsAttributeAPI

Defines the spherical harmonics attributes for 
a ParticleField, such as the spherical harmonics degree and coefficients.

The degree is constant across all particles in the ParticleField.

The coefficients are provided in both `float` and `half` types for 
easy data footprint affordance. Data consumers should prefer the
`float` version if available.

The length of the coefficients attribute is expected to match the 
length of any provided position data times the per-particle element size
derived from the SH degree, specifically `element size = (degree+1)*(degree+1)).`
If it is too long it will be truncated to be compatible with the number of 
particles defined by the position data. If it is too short it will be ignored.
If it is ignored or not populated, the particle should use a SH
coefficient corresponding to a DC signal of (0.5, 0.5, 0.5),
with degree 0.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(ParticleFieldSphericalHarmonicsAttributeAPI_properties)=

## Properties

(ParticleFieldSphericalHarmonicsAttributeAPI_radiance:sphericalHarmonicsCoefficients)=

### radiance:sphericalHarmonicsCoefficients

**USD type**: `float3[]`

An array of spherical harmonics 
coefficients, in `float` precision. The coefficients are grouped in the array by 
particle, meaning each particle has N contiguous coefficients, `Y(m,l)` sorted 
first by order (m) and then within the order by index (l). A renderer can compute 
an element size per particle based on the SH degree, and use that to stripe
the array by particle.

The length of this attribute is expected to 
match the length of any provided position data for the ParticleField times the 
per-particle element size derived from the SH degree, specifically 
`element size = (degree+1)*(degree+1)).` If it is 
too long it will be truncated to the number of particles defined by the position 
data. If it is too short it will be ignored.


(ParticleFieldSphericalHarmonicsAttributeAPI_radiance:sphericalHarmonicsCoefficientsh)=

### radiance:sphericalHarmonicsCoefficientsh

**USD type**: `half3[]`

An array of spherical harmonics 
coefficients, in `half` precision. If the `float` version 
(sphericalHarmonicsCoefficients) is defined, that version should be preferred.
The coefficients are grouped in the array by 
particle, meaning each particle has N contiguous coefficients, `Y(m,l)` sorted 
first by order (m) and then within the order by index (l). A renderer can compute 
an element size per particle based on the SH degree, and use that to stripe
the array by particle.

The length of this attribute is expected to 
match the length of any provided position data for the ParticleField times the 
per-particle element size derived from the SH degree, specifically 
`element size = (degree+1)*(degree+1)).` If it is 
too long it will be truncated to the number of particles defined by the position 
data. If it is too short it will be ignored.


(ParticleFieldSphericalHarmonicsAttributeAPI_radiance:sphericalHarmonicsDegree)=

### radiance:sphericalHarmonicsDegree

**USD type**: `int`

**Fallback value**: `3`

Defines the highest degree of the spherical 
harmonics. A degree of N implies a coefficient element size (per particle) of 
`(N+1)*(N+1)` values. The spherical harmonics degree is the same for all 
particles in the ParticleField.

