% WARNING: THIS FILE IS GENERATED BY genSchemaDocs. DO NOT EDIT.
% Generated: 03:26PM on February 19, 2026


(ParticleFieldScaleAttributeAPI)=
# ParticleFieldScaleAttributeAPI

Defines an applied schema for ParticleField
scale factor data. 

Scale values are linear scales, in line with scales provided elsewhere in 
OpenUSD, and not specified in log-format sometimes seen in PLY files associated 
with Gaussian splats.

Attributes are provided in both `float` and `half` types for 
easy data footprint affordance. Data consumers should prefer the
`float` version if available.

The length of this attribute is expected to match the length of
any provided position data (via any ParticleFieldPositionBaseAPI derived
schema). If it is too long it will be truncated to the number of particles 
defined by the position data. If it is too short it will be ignored.

```{contents}
:depth: 2
:local:
:backlinks: none
```

(ParticleFieldScaleAttributeAPI_properties)=

## Properties

(ParticleFieldScaleAttributeAPI_scales)=

### scales

**USD type**: `float3[]`

Defines the affine linear scale factor applied 
to the kernel that is instantiated at each particle, in `float` precision.
The length of this attribute is expected to match the length of any provided 
position data for the ParticleField. If it is too long it will be truncated to 
the number of particles defined by the position data. If it is too short it will 
be ignored.


(ParticleFieldScaleAttributeAPI_scalesh)=

### scalesh

**USD type**: `half3[]`

Defines the affine linear scale factor applied 
to the kernel that is instantiated at each particle, in `half` precision. If 
the `float` version (scales) is defined, that version should be preferred.
The length of this attribute is expected to match the length of any provided 
position data for the ParticleField. If it is too long it will be truncated to 
the number of particles defined by the position data. If it is too short it will 
be ignored.

